.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Maketool - GTK-based front end for gmake
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2002 Greg Banks
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\" 
.\" $Id: maketool.1,v 1.2 2002-02-15 03:54:44 gnb Exp $
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MAKETOOL 1 "February 15, 2002"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
maketool \- simple GTK+ based GUI front end for GNU make
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maketool
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.RI [ var=value ]...
.RI [ target ]...
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B maketool
program.  Maketool's features include:
.IP \(bu
Figures out what targets are available and presents them in a menu.
.IP \(bu
Runs make and detects compiler errors and warnings in the output.
.IP \(bu
Double-clicking on errors starts an editor with that file and line.
.IP \(bu
Works with any makefile system that uses GNU make.
.IP \(bu
Automatically updates Makefile if project uses
.BR automake ,
.BR autoconf
or
.BR imake .
.IP \(bu
GUI for selecting configure options for automake and autoconf.
.IP \(bu
Special handling for standard GNU targets such as
.IR all ,
.IR install ,
.I clean
etc.
.IP \(bu
Save and reload logs of make runs.
.IP \(bu
Summarise make logs to reduce visual clutter.
.IP \(bu
With recursive make, expand or collapse each directory separately.
.IP \(bu
Override values of make and environment variables.
.IP \(bu
Make in series or in parallel, (using make's
.B \-j
and
.B \-l
flags).
.IP \(bu
Dryrun mode (using make's
.B \-n
flag).
.IP \(bu
Implements many of make's command-line options.
.IP \(bu
Configure foreground & background colours of error & warnings lines.
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.SH OPTIONS
This program follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR, \fB\-\-directory=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
Change to \fIDIRECTORY\fP before doing anything.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-file=\fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-makefile=\fIFILE\fR
Read \fIFILE\fR as a makefile.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show help and exit.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR [\fIN\fR], \fB\-\-jobs\fR[\fB=\fIN\fR]
Allow \fIN\fR jobs at once; infinite jobs with no arg.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-keep-going\fR
Keep going when some targets can't be made.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR [\fIN\fR], \fB\-\-load-average\fR[\fB=\fIN\fR], \fB\-\-max-load\fR[\fB=\fIN\fR]
Don't start multiple jobs unless load is below \fIN\fR.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-no-keep-going\fR, \fB\-\-stop\fR
Turns off -k
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print the version number of
.B maketool
and exit.
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $HOME/.maketoolrc
Stores information which is configured in the Preferences window.
.TP
.B make.log
Default filename for loading and saving logs.
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
All normal GTK environment apply.
.B Maketool
also passes all environment variables to
.B gmake
when it is run, except those explicitly set in the
Variables pane of the Preferences window.
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This software was written by Greg Banks <gnb@alphalink.com.au>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Bambang Purnomosidi D. P. (bpdp)
<bambang@3wsi.com>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used
by others).
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Report bugs to <gnb@alphalink.com.au>.
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
(c) 1999-2002 Greg Banks <gnb@alphalink.com.au>. Maketool comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY. You may redistribute copies of this software
under the terms of the GNU General Public License.
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR make (1),
online maketool documentation.
